## Abyssal Keyword
To represent the corruption of the Demiurge, a new keyword has been added to several spells and abilities across several domains. Whenever a character has two or more domain cards with the Abyssal keyword, their physical appearance is altered. See Distinctions for more information on this change.
### Corrupted Domains
Below you’ll find a list of domain cards with the Abyssal Keyword
#### Arcana
Unleash Chaos, Wall Walk, Floating Eye, Flight, Blink Out, Premonition, Rift Walker, Telekinesis, Arcana-Touched, Sensory Projection, Adjust Reality
#### Codex
Illiat, Vagras, Korvax, Exota, Teleport, Manifest Wall, Banish, Homet, Vyola, Safe Haven, Ronin
#### Midnight
Midnight Spirit
#### Splendor
Final Words, Divination, Shape Material, Resurrection
#### Blood
All
#### Dread
All
## Abyssal Domain
The corruption of Palaghast’s Domains stems from the Abyssal Domain, created entirely by the Demiurge. The Abyssal Domain represents the abyss, daemons, summoning, forbidden knowledge, crafting, and travel. All Abyssal domain cards have the Abyssal Keyword.

At character creation a player may substitute one of their class domain with an appropriate level of an Abyssal domain card. Upon leveling up follow the same rules as usual, with the addition that a character may take another Abyssal domain card, even if they have not taken one previously.

This Domain is available to all classes.
## Domain Cards
### Level 1
#### Congruency 0
Ability, Abyssal
When this domain card is in your loadout, all domain cards with the Abyssal keyword now use Presence for determining your Spellcraft rolls.
#### Abyssal Decay
Spell, Abyssall
Make a Spellcraft roll against a target within Far range. On a success, the target Marks a Stress. Or, Spend a Hope to deal damage equal to the target’s spent Stress.
#### Daemon Wings
Spell, Abyssal
Mark a Stress to sprout daemonic wings. You may fly in a straight line up to Close Range. When the spell ends you float down to land safely on the ground.
### Level 2
#### Abyssal Mark
Spell, Abyssal
Make a Spellcast Roll against a target within Close range. On a success, place a number of counters on this card equal to your Proficiency. Whenever the marked target marks an HP, use your Reaction to spend a token to deal an additional d8 magical damage.
#### Lesser Daemon
Spell, Abyssal
Spend a Hope to summon a lesser daemon to your side until your next rest, you cast Lesser Daemon again, or the daemon is targeted by an attack. If you spend an additional Hope, you can summon a daemon that flies. You can communicate with them, make a Spellcast Roll to command them to perform simple tasks, and mark a Stress to see through their eyes.

When you deal damage to an adversary within Melee range of your daemon, you add a d6 to your damage roll.
### Level 3
#### Foresight
Spell, Abyssal
At the beginning of the session, place a number of tokens equal to your Spellcast trait on this card. Whenever an ally attempts an action roll, you get a glimpse of the future. Before the consequences take take place, you may add any number of tokens from this card as a bonus to their roll.

Or, whenever an adversary attempts an action roll, you may spend any number of tokens on this card to reduce the total by the number of tokens spent.
#### Staff of the Demiurge
Spell, Abyssal
Spend a Hope to summon a staff from the Abyssal Sea. You may wield the staff as a melee weapon that deals magical damage. Or, you may send the staff out to a range of Close. When you cast a spell from your loadout, you may use the staff’s position as the spell’s origin. The staff exists until your next rest or targeted by an attack.
### Level 4
#### Crown of the Demiurge
Spell, Abyssal
Spend a Hope to summon the Crow of the Demiurge. Set in the crown are four gems. One may be activated at a time to perform different abilities.
* Make a Spellcraft roll against a target up to Far range to deal 2d10 magical damage.
* Mark a Stress to teleport yourself up to Close Range.
* Mark a Stress to provide an ally with a temporary armor slot. This extra armor must be marked first.
* Spend a Hope to launch this gem from the crown up to Far range where it explodes. Make a Spellcraft roll against all targets in a Very Close range. Those affected take 4d8 magical damage. The gem reforms in the crown after a long rest.
#### Daemonic Visage
Spell, Abyssal
Make a Spellcraft roll (15) to turn your appearance into that of a daemon. This lasts until you remove the effect or take a long rest. While appearing as a daemon you have advantage on rolls to intimidate and can communicate with all daemons. 
### Level 5
#### Astral Projection
Spell, Abyssal
Make a Spellcraft roll (13) to separate your consciousness from your body. While in this astral form your projection is invisible, but you are able to sense your surroundings as normal. Your projection can travel up to Far Range from your body and may pass through walls.

Spells with the Abyssal keyword can harm your astral form, lowering your Stress rather than your HP. When your Stress reaches 0, you are forced back to your body with only 1 HP remaining.
#### Will of the Demiurge
Spell, Abyssal
Make a Spellcraft roll against a daemon of your tier or lower. On a success you may give that daemon one command that it must carry out.
### Level 6
#### Summon Daemon
Spell, Abyssal
Spend a Hope to summon a daemon to your side until your next rest, you cast Summon Daemon again, or the daemon is targeted by an attack. If you spend an additional Hope, you can summon a daemon that flies. You can communicate with them, make a Spellcast Roll to command them to perform simple tasks, and mark a Stress to see through their eyes.

When you deal damage to an adversary within Melee range of your daemon, you add a d8 to your damage roll.
#### Abyssal Circle
Spell, Abyss
You take an action to draw a circle of abyssal power on the ground. While you remain standing in the circle your Spellcraft rolls for all Abyssal spells receive an +1 bonus and deal an additional 1d8 magical damage. If you are removed from the circle you must draw a new one.
### Level 7
#### Abyssal Touched
When 4 or more of the domain cards in your loadout have the Abyssal keyword, gain the following benefits:

* +1 bonus to your Spellcast Rolls.
* Once per rest, you can switch results of your Hope and Fear Dice.
#### Astral Tunnel
Spell, Abyssal
You tunnel through reality and into the Abyssal Plane, allowing you to travel vast distances. You only need a description of the end point to reach it. For each additional target beyond yourself you must mark a Stress.
### Level 8
#### Magic Dominance
Spell, Abyssal
When an adversary misses a magical action, you may spend a Hope to cast the same spell at a new target, using your Spellcraft trait. You must pay all the appropriate costs that the action requires, spending Hope if the adversary spent Fear.
### Level 9
#### Rending
Spell, Abyssal
Make a Spellcraft roll against a target, if successful deal 6d6 magical damage. For each damage threshold you pass reduce the target’s stress by a point.
#### Daemon Lord
Spell, Abyssal
Spend 4 Hope and make a Spellcraft roll (19) to summon a Daemon Lord. This daemon is not under your control and will act however they wish.
### Level 10
#### Spear of the Demiurge
Spell, Abyssal
You summon a Spear of the Demiurge from the Abyssal Sea. This spear may be used as a melee weapon that deals d10 magical damage. While holding the spear, add an additional d8 magical damage to all your Abyssal spells. This spear also deals an additional d10 to any adversary considered Divine in origin. 
#### Daemonic Gaesh
Spell, Abyssal
Make a Spellcraft roll against a Daemon. If successful they must follow your commands until the next rest. You may spend a Hope to keep the Gaesh active beyond the rest. If you or a friendly target attack the Daemon the gaesh drops and you may not attempt this spell against the target again until after a long rest.
